feat(angular): Add Angular CLI + Webpack Plugin sourcemaps upload guide (#6404)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/javascript/common/sourcemaps/uploading/angular-webpack.mdx

---
title: Angular CLI
description: "Upload your source maps using the Angular CLI, a custom Angular builder and the Sentry Webpack plugin."
sidebar_order: 0
supported:
  - javascript.angular
---

> You can use the Angular CLI together with our Sentry Webpack plugin to automatically create releases and upload source maps to Sentry when building your app (e.g. with `ng build`).
> Due to Angular's closed build system, you first need to to configure a custom builder to register the Webpack plugin.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the Angular CLI together with our Sentry Webpack plugin to automatically create releases and upload source maps to Sentry when building your app (with `ng build`, for example).
Due to Angular's closed build system, to register the Webpack plugin, you'll first need to configure a custom builder .

```

> ## Installation
> 
> ```shell {tabTitle:npm}
> npm install --save-dev @angular-builders/custom-webpack @sentry/webpack-plugin
> ```
> 
> ```shell {tabTitle:yarn}
> yarn add --dev @angular-builders/custom-webpack @sentry/webpack-plugin
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Install

Sentry captures data by using an SDK within your application’s runtime.

```shell {tabTitle:npm}
npm install --save-dev @angular-builders/custom-webpack @sentry/webpack-plugin
```

```shell {tabTitle:yarn}
yarn add --dev @angular-builders/custom-webpack @sentry/webpack-plugin
```
```

Author: Ah I agree, we should add a sentence here above the code section but we're not installing an SDK here but a webpack plugin. Will add another sentence.

Author: [f5d6de2](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/pull/6404/commits/f5d6de24350c97288998ee7a69ce8c5fbc596181)

> ## Configuration
> 
> First, make sure that you're [generating source maps](../../.#generating-source-maps) in your Angular project.
> Then, set up a [custom Angular builder](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@angular-builders/custom-webpack), to which you add the Sentry Webpack plugin.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure

You can configure Sentry by making sure that you're [generating source maps](../../.#generating-source-maps) in your Angular project, setting up a [custom Angular builder](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@angular-builders/custom-webpack) to which you add the Sentry Webpack plugin, and finally uploading. Configuration should happen as early as possible in your application's lifecycle.

```

Author: I'm not too happy with neither my first version, nor the suggestion 😅 Will try to come up with different wording. Overall, I just want to highlight what we need to configure to upload source maps (I think "configure Sentry" is a little too brought here).

Reviewer: Sounds good! We can talk about this more when we meet too :)

> ### 1. Set up custom Angular builder
> 
> In your `angular.json`, replace the default builder (`@angular-devkit/build-angular`) with `@angular-builders/custom-webpack`:
> 
> ```javascript {filename:angular.json}
> {
>   "projects": {
>     "my-project": {
>       "architect": {
>         "build": {
>           "builder": "@angular-builders/custom-webpack:browser",
>           "options": {
>             "customWebpackConfig": {
>               "path": "./webpack.config.js"
>             },
>             // ... other options
>           },
>           // ... other options
>         },
>         // ... other options
>       },
>       // ... other options
>     }
>   }
> }
> ```
> 
> Note: This will have no effect on your development server by using `ng serve`. Only `ng build` is configured to use the custom builder and the Webpack plugin. If you're using an Angular version below 13
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Set Up Custom Angular Builder

In your `angular.json`, replace the default builder (`@angular-devkit/build-angular`) with `@angular-builders/custom-webpack`:

```javascript {filename:angular.json}
{
  "projects": {
    "my-project": {
      "architect": {
        "build": {
          "builder": "@angular-builders/custom-webpack:browser",
          "options": {
            "customWebpackConfig": {
              "path": "./webpack.config.js"
            },
            // ... other options
          },
          // ... other options
        },
        // ... other options
      },
      // ... other options
    }
  }
}
```

<Alert title="Note" level="info">

If you're using any Angular version below 13, using `ng serve` will have no effect on your development server. Only `ng build` is configured to use the custom builder and the Webpack plugin. 

<Alert>

```

Not sure if the whole note applies to Angular versions below 13 or just the second part...?

Author: Ooops, I totaly forgot to finish the last sentence, which should just mention that the build command is slightly different for NG13 and below.

Author: Done [f5d6de2](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/pull/6404/commits/f5d6de24350c97288998ee7a69ce8c5fbc596181)

### 2. Register the Sentry Webpack Plugin

Register the Sentry Webpack plugin in your `webpack.config.js`:

```javascript {filename:webpack.config.js}
const SentryWebpackPlugin = require("@sentry/webpack-plugin");

module.exports = {
  // ... other config above ...

  devtool: "source-map", // Source map generation must be turned on
  plugins: [
    new SentryWebpackPlugin({
      org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
      project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",

      // Auth tokens can be obtained from https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/
      // and needs the `project:releases` and `org:read` scopes
      authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,

      // Specify the directory containing build artifacts
      include: "./dist/my-project",

      // Optionally uncomment the line below to override automatic release name detection
      // release: process.env.RELEASE,
    }),
  ],
};
```

Learn more about configuring the plugin in our [Sentry Webpack Plugin documentation](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-webpack-plugin).

> <Note>
> 
> If you use [SourceMapDevToolPlugin](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/source-map-dev-tool-plugin) for more fine-grained control of source map generation, turn off `noSources` so Sentry can display proper source code context in event stack traces.
> 
> </Note>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Note>

If you're using [SourceMapDevToolPlugin](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/source-map-dev-tool-plugin) to get more fine-grained control over source map generation, turn off `noSources` so Sentry can display proper source code context in event stack traces.

</Note>
```

> ### 3. Uploading
> 
> To upload, simply build your Angular application:
> 
> ```bash
> ng build
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Upload

To upload, build your Angular application:

```bash
ng build
```
```

> ### Releases
> 
> The Sentry Webpack plugin will automatically inject a release value into the SDK so you must either omit the `release` option from `Sentry.init` or make sure `Sentry.init`'s `release` option matches the plugin's `release` option exactly:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Releases

The Sentry Webpack plugin will automatically inject a release value into the SDK, so you should either omit the `release` option from `Sentry.init` or make sure `Sentry.init`'s `release` option matches the plugin's `release` option exactly:

```
